# Brain-tumour-detection-and-classification-using-AI-and-ML-with-GUI

For the final year project of my undergraduate degree, I focused on the detection and classification of brain tumours (Pituitary, Meningioma, Glioma, and No tumour) using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). I achieved the project’s goals by following the standard machine learning framework pipeline and the waterfall project management methodology, which included data collection, exploratory data analysis, pre-processing, model development, training, and evaluation. We explored the collected validated data, identified defects and problems and applied advanced algorithms and techniques such as RGB-to-greyscale conversion, image size standardisation, image normalisation using min-max scaling, noise reduction through the Gaussian blur filter, label encoding using dictionary mapping, data shuffling, data augmentation using image transformations, and data balancing using SMOTE to resolve defects and achieve optimal results. 

Through iterative development, refinement, and evaluation, we created several custom sequential and transfer learning models with different number, type and element composition layers using the TensorFlow and Keras libraries. This process resulted in a custom model that achieved 98% accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score through hyper-parameter tuning using Google Collab and Keras online platforms. Once we were satisfied with the model's performance, we designed and implemented a user-friendly graphical user interface (GUI) using Python. This GUI allowed users to interact with the model by uploading MRI images, which the model then analysed to predict results. The results were displayed on the GUI, with a dynamic feature to enable users to access information from Cancer Research UK regarding the MRI results classified by the model. I achieved an 85% mark on the dissertation for this project.
